<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="id20081223130142" xml:lang="en-CA">
	<title>Abstract</title>
	<prolog>
		<author>Jacek Furmankiewicz</author>
	</prolog>
	<body>
		<section>
			<title>Swing JavaBuilder : making Swing development productive</title>
			<p>
			<q>Just started on using the Swing JavaBuilder and i must say i like it.
Just replaced 170 rules of Java code with only 13 lines YAML</q>
			<i>Comment posted the JavaBuilders forum</i>
			</p>
			<p>The Swing JavaBuilder is a library whose sole goal is to
				maximize the productivity of a Swing developer.</p>
			<p>It's main goal is tackling all the Swing pain points, in
				particular the complexity and verbosity of the API and reducing it
				to the smallest amount of code possible.</p>
			<p>This is accomplished by moving all the boring gruntwork of
				Swing interface creation to an external YAML file, which has a
				1-to-1 match with a backing Java class (e.g. a JFrame or JPanel)
				that is built from that file. This allows to follow a pure MVC
				pattern where the YAML contains nothing but the view, while the Java
				class is (mostly) the controller.</p>
			<p>As an added bonus, the Swing JavaBuilder offers integrated
				support for data binding (using Beans Binding), input validation
				(using Apache Commons Validators), background task processing (using
				SwingWorker) and last but not least, an integrated layout management
				DSL built-on top of the amazing MigLayout layout manager</p>
			<p>In essence, the Swing JavaBuilder is an aggregator of
				best-of-breed Swing solutions into one common, integrated toolkit
				that makes creating Swing user interfaces a breeze</p>
		</section>
		<note>
			<p> YAML is a file format that is a superset of JSON. We will cover
				it in more detail in future chapters. It's very simple to
				understand, edit and maintain. It's main advantage over both XML and
				JSON is the lack of any opening or closing tags, since it implements
				hierarchical data relationships via whitespace indentation (similar
				to the Python programming language).</p>
		</note>
	</body>
</topic>