<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="id20081223130142" xml:lang="en-CA">
	<title>Preface</title>
	<prolog>
		<author>Jacek Furmankiewicz</author>
	</prolog>
	<body>
		<section>
			<p>In 2007 or so, Sun Microsystems announced their JavaFX project,
				which aimed to deliver declarative UIs and rich desktop
				functionality. Unfortunately, in what I've always believed to be a
				severely misguided decision, this was accomplished by introducing a
				totally new language, instead of enhancing the core Java abilities
				and the existing Swing UI toolkit.</p>
			<p>I decided that there had to be a middle-of-the-road approach that
				could give Java UI developers the productivity of declarative UIs
				without the need to throw out their current language skills out and
				focus on an unproved and untested new language (whose
				features I wasn't particularly fond of anyway, but that's a
				different story).
			</p>
			<p>The JavaBuilders project was a result of this desire. It
				started off with many weeks of research and evaluation of different
				options. This resulted finally in the creation of a generic
				declarative UI based around the YAML format (which has many
				advantages over the XML or JSON formats) and the integration of many
				leading open source libraries (for features such as databinding or
				input validation) into one integrated solution.</p>
			<p>The Swing JavaBuilder is the first production-ready
				implementation of the JavaBuilder engine, but it's generic nature
				allows it to be configured for other UI toolkits as well. In the
				future a SWT JavaBuilder is planned (and maybe even GTK+ and Qt
				versions as well).
			</p>
			<p>I hope its adoption by you and your team will greatly increase
				your productivity and ensure a long and healthy future for Java rich
				client development.</p>
			<p>
				<b>Jacek Furmankiewicz</b>
			</p>
			<p>
				<i>JavaBuilders Technical Architect</i>
			</p>
		</section>
		<section>
		P.S. Many thanks to our code contributors: Alexandre Navarro, Sébastien Gollion.
		</section>
	</body>
</topic>